unwanted  toxicities  and  economic  and  other  costs associated  with  anti-PD1  adjuvant  therapy.  Existing and future candidate prognostic biomarkers must be  integrated  into  the  design  of  future  randomised controlled trials. 10 Candidate  biomarkers  should  not  be used  to  select  patients  for  adjuvant  therapy  without validation  in  prospective  randomised  controlled  trials or  at  least  well  designed  and  controlled  analyses using biospecimens  from  completed  randomised  controlled trials. More effort should be invested towards predictive biomarkers,  which  would  allow  clinicians  to  treat  only those predicted to benefit from adjuvant therapy where promising candidates exist. 10

Finally,  for  surgically  resected  melanoma,  there  is  a need to limit adjuvant therapy to patients who have a higher risk of relapse and death and a higher likelihood of  deriving  benefit.  This  must  be  the  focus  of  future adjuvant trials rather than casting the net even broader to treat more patients, which has been the trend.

I report grants from Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech-Roche, OncoSec, and Merck for contracted research, and scientific consulting personal fees from Bristol Myers Squibb, Merck, Clinigen, Novartis, Genentech-Roche, Array Biopharma, Partner Therapeutics, Sanofi-Genzyme/Regeneron, Pfizer, EMD Serono, NewLink Genetics, BioNTech, and Immunocore outside the submitted work.

## Ahmad A Tarhini

## ahmad.tarhini@moffitt.org

and Department of Oncologic Sciences, University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL 33612, USA

- 1 Kirkwood JM, Manola J, Ibrahim J, et al. A pooled analysis of eastern cooperative oncology group and intergroup trials of adjuvant high-dose interferon for melanoma. Clin Cancer Res 2004; 10: 1670-77.
- 2 Kirkwood JM, Ibrahim JG, Sosman JA, et al. High-dose interferon alfa-2b significantly prolongs relapse-free and overall survival compared with the GM2-KLH/QS-21 vaccine in patients with resected stage IIB-III melanoma: results of intergroup trial E1694/S9512/C509801. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 2370-80.
- 3 Eggermont AM, Suciu S, Testori A, et al. Long-term results of the randomized phase III trial EORTC 18991 of adjuvant therapy with pegylated interferon alfa-2b versus observation in resected stage III melanoma . J Clin Oncol 2012; 30: 3810-18.
- 4 Eggermont AM, Chiarion-Sileni V, Grob JJ, et al. Adjuvant ipilimumab versus placebo after complete resection of high-risk stage III melanoma (EORTC 18071): a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2015; 16: 522-30.
- 5 Tarhini AA, Lee SJ, Hodi FS, et al. Phase III study of adjuvant ipilimumab (3 or 10 mg/kg) versus high-dose interferon alfa-2b for resected high-risk melanoma: North American Intergroup E1609. J Clin Oncol 2020; 38: 567-75.
- 6 Eggermont AMM, Blank CU, Mandala M, et al. Adjuvant pembrolizumab versus placebo in resected stage III melanoma. N Engl J Med 2018; 378: 1789-801.
- 7 Long GV, Hauschild A, Santinami M, et al. Adjuvant dabrafenib plus trametinib in stage III BRAF-mutated melanoma. N Engl J Med 2017; 377: 1813-23.
- 8 Ascierto PA, Del Vecchio M, Mandalá M, et al. Adjuvant nivolumab versus ipilimumab in resected stage IIIB-C and stage IV melanoma (CheckMate 238): 4-year results from a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020; published online Sept 19. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30494-0.
- 9 Tarhini A, Ghate SR, Ionescu-Ittu R, et al. Postsurgical treatment landscape and economic burden of locoregional and distant recurrence in patients with operable nonmetastatic melanoma. Melanoma Res 2018; 28: 618-28.
- 10 Tarhini A, Kudchadkar RR. Predictive and on-treatment monitoring biomarkers in advanced melanoma: moving toward personalized medicine. Cancer Treat Rev 2018; 71: 8-18.

Department of Cutaneous Oncology and Department of Immunology, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA;

## Angiogenesis inhibitors in neuroendocrine tumours: finally coming of age

Neuroendocrine  tumours  (NETs)  are  considered  rare in  the  world  of  epithelial  neoplasms  yet,  in  the  past 30 years, have shown increasing trends in incidence and prevalence. 1 The  seminal  epidemiological  studies  that led  to  these  observations  have  been  crucial  in  raising awareness about NETs and promoting the feasibility and value of rigorous scientific study.

Over  the past  decade, multiple randomised  trials have  led  to  US  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)approved treatments  for  advanced,  well  differentiated NETs, including everolimus, sunitinib, lanreotide, and ¹⁷⁷Lu-Dotatate. Angiogenesis inhibitors have strong  scientific  rationale  in  NETs  because  of  their high  vascularity  and  expression  of  VEGF. 2 Sunitinib, an inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases including VEGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), RET, and c-KIT, was approved on the basis of  a  phase  3  study of  sunitinib  versus  placebo  in 171  patients  with  advanced  pancreatic  NETs. 3 Median progression-free survival was 11·4 months for sunitinib versus 5·5 months with placebo (hazard ratio [HR] 0·42; 95% CI 0·26-0·66; p&lt;0·001) and the objective response rate  was  9·3%  for  sunitinib and  zero for placebo. These data led to the US FDA approval of sunitinib for advanced pancreatic NETs in 2011.

To date, other angiogenesis inhibitors have had limited  success  in  NETs,  but  not  for  lack  of  trying. Bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody that inhibits

<!-- image -->

Science Photo Library

See Articles pages 1489 and 1500

<!-- image -->

VEGF-A,  has  been  studied  in  two  randomised  trials  in NETs.  SWOG  0518 4 was  a  randomised  phase  3  trial  of octreotide plus interferon alfa-2b versus octreotide plus bevacizumab in 427 patients with advanced gastrointestinal  NETs,  although  it  did  not  meet  its predefined  primary  endpoint. CALGB  80701 5 examined bevacizumab in a randomised phase 2 trial of everolimus and octreotide with or without bevacizumab in 150 patients with advanced pancreatic NETs. The addition of bevacizumab to everolimus led to a small, but statistically  significant,  increase  in  median  progressionfree survival of 16·7 months versus 14 months (HR  0·80;  95%  CI  0·55-1·17;  p=0·12).  Response  rates were  higher  in  the  bevacizumab  group  (31% vs 12%; p=0·005).  However,  these  small  efficacy  gains  were  at the  expense  of  increased  grade  3  adverse  events,  and bevacizumab was not pursued further in NETs.

Although  the  development  of  bevacizumab  for  NETs was halted, hope remained for tyrosine kinase inhibitors given  the  earlier  success  with  sunitinib.  Pazopanib,  an inhibitor of VEGFR, PDGFR, c-KIT, and fibroblast growth factor, was studied in ALLIANCE 021202, 6 a  randomised phase 2 trial of pazopanib versus placebo in 171 patients with  advanced  carcinoid  tumours.  Median  progressionfree survival was 11·6 months for pazopanib and 8·5  months  for  placebo  (HR  0·53;  1-sided  90%  upper confidence  limit  0·69;  p=0·0005);  response  rates  were low in both groups at 2% and 0, respectively. Although a phase 3 trial with pazopanib was not done, these results confirmed that the VEGF signalling pathway remained a valid target for advanced carcinoid tumours.

In The Lancet Oncology, two randomised phase 3 trials show the efficacy of surufatinib  in  extrapancreatic  and pancreatic  NETs,  almost  a  decade  after  the  sunitinib US  FDA  approval.  Surufatinib,  an  inhibitor  of  receptor tyrosine  kinases,  specifically targets VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR1), and immune  evasion  via  macrophage  colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R). In  the  SANET-ep  study by  Jianming  Xu  and  colleagues, 7 289  patients  with advanced, well differentiated, extrapancreatic NETs were  randomly  assigned  (2:1)  to  receive  surufatinib or  placebo.  Surufatinib  showed  longer  progressionfree survival compared  with placebo (9·2 months [95%  CI  7·4-11·1] vs 3·8  months  [3·7-5·7];  HR  0·33, 95%  CI  0·22-0·50;  p&lt;0·0001)  and  a  higher  response rate  (10% vs 0;  p=0·0051).  In  the  parallel  SANET-p study by Xu and colleagues, 8 172 patients with advanced,  well  differentiated,  pancreatic  NETs  were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive surufatinib or placebo. In this study,  surufatinib  similarly  showed a longer progression-free survival (10·9 months [95%  CI  7·5-13·8] vs 3·7  months  [2·8-5·6];  HR  0·49, 95% CI 0·32-0·76; p=0·0011) and higher response rate (19% vs 2%; p=0·0021) than the placebo. Both studies met  their  prespecified  primary  endpoints  and  China's National Medical Products Administration granted priority review status to the new drug application (NDA) for surufatinib.

Given  that  both  trials  were  done  in  China  only,  a phase 1/2 study of surufatinib was done in the USA to evaluate safety and antitumour activity in a US patient population. 9 This study evaluated  32  patients  with NETs and a preliminary analysis confirmed antitumour activity with a response rate of 18% in pancreatic NET and  0  in  extrapancreatic  NET  with  a  disease  control rate of 100% in both cohorts. Median progression-free survival  was  not  reported  and  no  new  safety  signals were observed. In June, 2020, the US FDA announced in that they would allow NDA submission on the basis of the  phase  3 trials  done  in China  along  with  data  from the phase 1/2 trial in the USA. 10

Angiogenesis inhibitors have finally come of age in the field of NETs. Although earlier randomised studies with bevacizumab  and  pazopanib  did  not  lead  to  US  FDA approvals, they laid crucial groundwork for subsequent studies  of  angiogenesis  inhibitors.  Surufatinib  yields a meaningful progression-free survival benefit and response rate in heavily pretreated patients with NETs.  Notably,  this  is  the  first  positive  phase  3  study of  tyrosine  kinase  inhibitors  in  extrapancreatic  NETs.  I commend Xu and colleagues on well done and clinically meaningful  trials.  Ongoing  clinical  trials  of  tyrosine kinase inhibitors include a phase 2/3 study of octreotide plus  axitinib  versus  octreotide  plus  placebo  in  nonpancreatic NETs (NCT01744249), and a phase 3 study of cabozantanib versus placebo in gastroenteropancreatic NETs (A021602; NCT03375320).

Key questions remain about angiogenesis inhibitors in NETs. Why has surufatinib crossed the finish line when other  angiogenesis  inhibitors  have  not?  Some  have credited its novel angioimmune mechanism. The target, CSF1R, promotes tumour immune evasion through the activation  of  tumour-associated  macrophages.  More

than  likely,  the  success  of  surufatinib  is  attributable to  both  its  novel  mechanism of  action  and  favourable business decisions around its development. In addition, we  do  not  yet  know  how  surufatinib  will  fit  into  the complex treatment algorithm for NETs. Evidence regarding  sequence  of  therapies  is  a  crucial  need  in the field, although might be impractical to study in  prospective  clinical  trials.  We  also  need  to  study mechanisms of resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, develop and validate predictive biomarkers, understand reasons  for  heterogeneity  in  objective  response,  and identify better quantitative radiological response criteria in the  setting of  angiogenesis inhibition.  Last,  but  not least, we must also keep patients with NETs at the core of  how  we  think  about  optimal  treatment  strategies. Given the  chronicity  of  well  differentiated  NETs,  these patients  will  experience  an  accumulation  of  toxicities over  years  that  include  non-trivial  drug  side-effects, particularly with tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

PLK reports receiving research funding to her institution from Advanced Accelerator Applications, Brahms (Thermo-Fisher Scientific), Ipsen, Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, and Xencor; and reports serving on scientific advisory board meetings for and receiving honorarium from Advance Accelerator Applications and Ipsen.

Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA

- 1 Dasari A, Shen C, Halperin D, et al. Trends in the incidence, prevalence, and survival outcomes in patients with neuroendocrine tumors in the United States. JAMA Oncol 2017; 3: 1335-42.
- 2 Oberg K, Casanovas O, Castaño JP, et al. Molecular pathogenesis of neuroendocrine tumors: implications for current and future therapeutic approaches. Clin Cancer Res 2013; 19: 2842-49.
- 3 Raymond E, Dahan L, Raoul JL, et al. Sunitinib malate for the treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med 2011; 364: 501-13.
- 4 Yao JC, Guthrie KA, Moran C, et al. Phase III prospective randomized comparison trial of depot octreotide plus interferon alfa-2b versus depot octreotide plus bevacizumab in patients with advanced carcinoid tumors: SWOG S0518. J Clin Oncol 2017; 35: 1695-703.
- 5 Kulke M, Niedzwiecki D, Foster NR. Randomized phase II study of everolimus (E) versus everolimus plus bevacizumab (E+B) in patients (Pts) with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNET), CALGB 80701 (Alliance). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2015; 33 (suppl) : 4005 (abstr).
- 6 Bergsland EK, Mahoney MR, Asmis TR, et al. Prospective randomized phase II trial of pazopanib versus placebo in patients with progressive carcinoid tumors (CARC) (Alliance A021202). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2019; 37 (suppl) : abstr 4005.
- 7 Xu J, Shen L, Zhou Z, et al. Surufatinib in advanced extrapancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (SANET-ep): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2020; 21: 1500-12.
- 8 Xu J, Shen L, Bai C, et al. Surufatinib in advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (SANET-p): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2020; 21: 1489-99.
- 9 Dasari A, Li D, Sung MW, et al. Efficacy and safety of surufatinib in United States patients with neuroendocrine tumors. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2020; 38 (suppl) : 4610.

Pamela L Kunz pamela.kunz@yale.edu

- 10 Chi-Med. Chi-Med plans to submit NDA for surufatinib following pre-NDA meeting with the US FDA. June 1, 2020. https://www.chi-med.com/chimed-plans-to-submit-surufatinib-nda-following-pre-nda -meeting-withfda/2020 (accessed Sept 15, 2020).

## A roadmap for the early detection and diagnosis of cancer

If  we  are  to  beat  cancer,  early  detection  and  diagnosis are  arguably  the  most  effective  means  we  have  at our  disposal.  Progress  during  the  past  40  years  has transformed  the  prospects  of  people  diagnosed  with cancer in the UK, with survival doubling since the 1970s. 1 However, further improvements are still greatly needed, because cancer remains the leading cause of death in the UK, 2 with a stark projection of rising incidence to more than  half  a  million  cases  per  year  by  2035. 3 Patients diagnosed with cancer  at  an  early  stage  have the  best chance  of  curative  treatment  and  long-term  survival; for  example,  57%  of  people  with  lung  cancer  survive their  disease  for  5  years  or  more  when  diagnosed  at stage  I  compared  with  only  3%  of  those  diagnosed at  stage  IV. 4 Despite  cancer  screening  programmes, improved awareness, and more streamlined diagnostic pathways, only 54% of patients with cancer in England had their cancer detected at stage I or II in 2018. 5 With lower survival rates in the UK than in similar countries, such  as  Australia,  Canada,  or  Norway, 6,7 and  notable inequalities in survival across the UK, 8,9 there is a pressing  need to  see  a  paradigm  shift  in  our  ability to accurately detect and diagnose cancer at an early stage.

Beyond  the  clear  potential  for  health  benefit,  the UK has the capacity to be a world leader in developing a thriving early detection and diagnosis industry, capitalising  on its excellent science base and vast National  Health  Service  (NHS)  and data  infrastructure, and attracting global investment. This potential for  health  and  wealth  benefit  is  recognised  by  UK's national  governments,  with  ambitious  targets  set  in NHS  England's  Long Term  Plan  (ie,  a  commitment  to detect 75% of cancers at stage I and II by 2028) and the Scottish  Government's  Beating  Cancer  strategy, 10 and investments to support progress in early detection and diagnosis  (eg,  the  Accelerating  Detection  of  Disease

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Tyler Olson/Shutterstock.com

Published Online October 6, 2020 https://doi.org/10.1016/ S1470-2045(20)30593-3

For more on NHS England's Long Term Plan for cancer see https://www.england.nhs.uk/ cancer/strategy/