<!-- image -->

Available online at www.sciencedirect.com

## ScienceDirect

j o urnal homepage: www.ejcancer.com

## Clinical Trial

## Everolimus after hepatic arterial embolisation therapy of metastases from gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumours: The FFCD 1104-EVACEL-GTE phase II study

Thomas Walter a,* , Come Lepage b , Romain Coriat c , Emilie Barbier d , Guillaume Cadiot e , Francois-Xavier Caroli-Bosc f , Thomas Aparicio g , Karine Bouhier-Leporrier h , Olivia Hentic-Dhome i , Fre ´de ´rique Gay j , Anne-Claire Dupont-Gossart k , Muriel Duluc l , Ce ´line Lepere m , Thierry Lecomte n , Denis Smith o , Caroline Petorin p , Fre ´de ´ric Di-Fiore q , Francois Ghiringhelli r , Jean-Louis Legoux s , Rosine Guimbaud t , Eric Baudin u , Catherine Lombard-Bohas a , Thierry de Bae `re v for the FFCD 1104 investigators/investigators 1

- a Oncology Department, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France
- b HepatoGastroenterology and Digestive Oncology Department, University Hospital Dijon, University of Burgundy and Franche Comte ´, FFCD, EPICAD INSERM LNC-UMR 1231, Dijon, France
- c Gastroenterology Department, Cochin Hospital, Paris, France
- d Biostatistics, FFCD, EPICAD INSERM LNC-UMR 1231, University of Burgundy and Franche Comte ´, Dijon, France
- e Gastroenterology Department, CHU Robert Debre ´, Reims, France
- f Gastroenterology Department, CHU Angers, Angers, France
- g Gastroenterology Department, Saint Louis Hospital, APHP and Avicenne Hospital, APHP, Bobigny, France
- h Gastroenterology Department, CHU Co ˆte de Nacre, Caen, France
- i Gastroenterology Department, Beaujon Hospital, Clichy, France
- j Radiology Department, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France
- k Gastroenterology Department, Jean Minjoz Hospital, Besanc ¸on, France
- l Gastroenterology Department, CHU La Timone, Marseille, France
- m Gastroenterology Department, European Georges Pompidou Hospital, Paris, France
- n Hepatogastroenterology and Digestive Oncology Department, CHU Tours, Tours, France
- o Digestive Oncology Department, CHU Haut Le ´ve ˆque, Bordeaux, France
- p Digestive Oncology Department, CHU Estaing, Clermont-Ferrand, France
- q Gastroenterology Department, CHU Charles Nicolle, Rouen, France
- r Medical Oncology Department, Centre Georges-Franc ¸ois Leclerc, Dijon, France
- s Hepatogastroenterology Department, CHR La Source, Orle ´ans, France
- t Digestive Oncology Department, Ho ˆpital Rangueil, Toulouse, France
- u Medical Oncology Department, Gustave Roussy, Paris Saclay University, Villejuif, France

* Corresponding author : Pavillon E, UJOMM, Ho ˆpital Edouard Herriot, 69437, Lyon Cedex 03, France. Fax: þ 33 (0)4 72 11 96 91. E-mail address: thomas.walter@chu-lyon.fr (T. Walter).

1 Please see the Supplementary Appendix for a list of the FFCD 1104 Investigators/Collaborators.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

- Interventional Radiology Department, Gustave Roussy Villejuif &amp; UFR Medecine Kremlin Bicetre Paris Sud University,

v Villejuif, France

Received 9 April 2019; received in revised form 9 September 2019; accepted 26 September 2019

Available online 31 October 2019

## KEYWORDS

Everolimus; Neuroendocrine; Liver embolisation; Gastrointestinal tract

Abstract Background: Hepatic arterial embolisation therapy (HAET) is a treatment of liver metastases of gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumours (GI-NETs). HAET increases circulating vascular endothelial growth factor levels. Everolimus is a treatment in NETs that may have antiangiogenic activity.

Methods: This phase II study was conducted in patients with predominant and progressive liver metastases from GI-NETs. Everolimus was initiated 7 e 30 days after HAET. The hypothesis was that everolimus after HAET would increase hepatic progression-free survival (hPFS) rate at 24 months from 35% to 50%.

Results: Among the 74 patients included, 88% had small-bowel primary tumour, 43% had grade I and 57% grade II tumour, and 51% had extrahepatic metastases. Patients underwent one (n Z 19), two (n Z 54), or three (n Z 1) HAET procedures. hPFS at 24 months was 33% (95% confidence interval [CI], 22.5 e 43.7); 40 (54%) patients had objective response. Median (95% CI) hPFS, PFS, and overall survival were 19 (14 e 23), 17 (13 e 22), and 51 (33 e 60) months. The most common grade III e IV toxicities ( &gt; 5%) in patients receiving both HAET and everolimus (n Z 67) were elevated liver enzymes (55%), fatigue (18%), diarrhoea (16%), anaemia (12%), hypertriglyceridaemia (7%) and mucositis (6%).

Conclusions: The primary end-point was not reached. This sequence allows high liver response with HAET, and everolimus controls the extrahepatic disease.

Trial registration: NCT01678664 (clinicaltrials.gov).

ª 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

## 1. Introduction

Hepatic arterial embolisation therapy (HAET), including hepatic arterial embolisation (HAE) or transarterial chemoembolisation (TACE), are among the locoregional treatments used for isolated or predominantly liver metastases of gastrointestinal NETs (GI-NETs). This treatment is proposed to control symptoms of a carcinoid syndrome, but it is often used as an antitumour treatment, especially in ileal tumours [1 e 3]. Only a few phase II studies, including a small number of patients, have been reported in this indication [1,4,5]. Well-differentiated GINETs are often hypervascular tumours with secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by endocrine tumour cells, which may play an important role in the angiogenic process associated with endocrine carcinogenesis [6,7]. Furthermore, HAET has been reported to further increase the level of circulating VEGF with a possible impact on post-HAET relapse [8]. Thus, antiangiogenic treatment administered after HAET has been hypothesised to further improve tumour control, but a phase II study that evaluated treatment with sunitinib in this situation was negative [8]. mTOR pathway inhibitors display antiangiogenic in vitro and in vivo activity [9], and since the publication of RADIANT-2 and RADIANT-4

studies [10,11] everolimus is approved in GI-NETs; thus, the combination HAET-everolimus warrants further investigation. Our hypothesis was that everolimus after HAET could both delay liver disease progression in GINETs and improve control of the extrahepatic disease.

## 2. Patients and methods

FFCD 1104EVACEL was a single-arm, phase II, multicentre study that evaluated the role of 24 months of everolimus treatment in the prolongation of hepatic progression-free survival (hPFS) after TAE or TACE of liver metastases. This protocol was authorised by the French Medicines Agency ( Agence Franc ¸aise de Se ´curite ´ Sanitaire des Produits de Sante ´ ) on 29 June 2012 (A120657-42), and the trial was registered on the clinicaltrials.gov website (NCT01678664). The study complies with the Declaration of Helsinki rules and the principles of Good Clinical Practice guidelines.

## 2.1. Patients

Inclusion criteria were measurable progressive (within the previous 12 months) liver metastases (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours [RECIST]

v1.1) inaccessible to radiofrequency ablation or surgery, absence of contraindications to HAET or everolimus, age 18 years or above, World Health Organisation (WHO) performance status /C20 2, well differentiated (grade I or II according to WHO classification 2010) [12], histologically proven NET of the GI tract as determined by the French NET pathology network (TENpath). HAET with intention of tumour size reduction should have been confirmed in a multidisciplinary team meeting. Satisfactory laboratory assessments should be documented: neutrophil count /C21 1.5 /C2 10 9 /L, platelet count /C21 100 /C2 10 9 /L, Hb &gt; 10 g/dL; serum bilirubin /C20 1.5 /C2 the upper limit of normal (ULN), international normalized ratio (INR) &lt; 1.3 (or &lt; 3 for patients on anticoagulant therapy), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) /C20 5 /C2 ULN, creatinine /C20 1.5 /C2 ULN, fasting serum cholesterol /C20 300 mg/dL or 7.8 mmol/L and triglycerides /C20 2.5 /C2 ULN (if either or both of these limits are exceeded, the patient mayonly be included after institution of appropriate lipidlowering therapy). A complete resolution of toxic effects of any prior treatments or persistence at grade I at most (common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE), version 4.0) should have occurred, and the minimum interval since previous treatment was 28 days. Somatostatin analogue treatment for the control of carcinoid syndrome before HAET had to be continued after HAET according to the investigator's judgment. In the absence of carcinoid syndrome, treatment with a somatostatin analogue was not to be initiated after HAET. All patients gave written informed consent for participation in this trial.

Patients were not eligible for this study if any of the following exclusion criteria applied: (i) duodenopancreatic neuroendocrine tumour; (ii) poorly differentiated and/or grade III neuroendocrine neoplasm; (iii) HAET indicated for symptomatic control only; (iv) prior hepatic HAET; (v) prior treatment with an mTOR inhibitor; (vi) symptomatic bone metastasis; (vii) any uncontrolled disease such as hepatic failure, renal failure, respiratory failure, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III-IV congestive heart failure, unstable angina, myocardial infarction and significant arrhythmia; (viii) interstitial lung disease, uncontrolled diabetes (HbA1c &gt; 8%), chronic corticosteroid or immunosuppressant therapy, hypersensitivity to everolimus or other rapamycin derivatives; (ix) major surgery, open biopsy, or significant traumatic lesion during the 28 days prior to starting the investigational treatment, incompletely healed wound or foreseeable need for major surgery during the study and (x) portal thrombosis and biliodigestive anastomosis.

## 2.2. Study treatments

The HAET was either HAE by particulate embolisation of the hepatic arterial branches feeding the targeted liver metastases or TACE using a mixture of lipiodol with

Table 1 Patient characteristics.

| Patient characteristics                                     | Total population n Z 74   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Female, n (%)                                               | 31 (42)                   |
| Median age, years [range]                                   | 66 [43 e 86]              |
| Primary site, n (%)                                         |                           |
| Small bowel                                                 | 64 (86)                   |
| Caecum and colon                                            | 3 (4)                     |
| Rectum                                                      | 2 (3)                     |
| Stomach                                                     | 2 (3)                     |
| Unknown                                                     | 3 (4)                     |
| Performance status, n (%)                                   |                           |
| 0                                                           | 48 (65)                   |
| 1                                                           | 25 (34)                   |
| 2                                                           | 1 (1)                     |
| Previous carcinoid syndrome, n (%)                          | 32 (58)                   |
| Median chromogranin A level, ng/mL [range]                  | 571 [23 e 13677]          |
| Median urine 5-HIAA level, mg/24h [range]                   | 38 [1 e 315]              |
| Tumour grade, n (%)                                         |                           |
| Grade I                                                     | 32 (43)                   |
| Grade II                                                    | 42 (57)                   |
| Median liver tumour burden [range]                          | 30 [1 e 80]               |
| < 25%                                                       | 29 (39)                   |
| 25% e 50%                                                   | 24 (32)                   |
| 50% e 75%                                                   | 14 (19)                   |
| > 75%                                                       | 7 (10)                    |
| Extrahepatic metastases, n (%)                              | 38 (51)                   |
| Peritoneal                                                  | 10 (14)                   |
| Bone                                                        | 9 (12)                    |
| Lung                                                        | 6 (8)                     |
| Distant lymph nodes                                         | 24 (32)                   |
| Other                                                       | 3 (4)                     |
| Disease progression at study entry (RECIST criteria), n (%) | 74 (100)                  |
| Prior therapy, n (%)                                        |                           |
| Surgery of the primary tumour                               | 53 (72)                   |
| Surgery and/or radiofrequency ablation of liver metastases  | 12 (16)                   |
| Somatostatin analogue                                       | 55 (74)                   |
| Sunitinib                                                   | 3 (4)                     |
| Chemotherapy                                                | 4 (5)                     |
| Interferon                                                  | 1 (1)                     |
| Concurrent somatostatin analogue, n (%)                     | 37 (67)                   |

either doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 , up to a target of total dose of 100 mg) or streptozotocin (1500 mg/m 2 ) followed by particulate embolisation using either gelatin sponge particles or spherical embolics up to stasis. TACE using drugeluting microspheres was not allowed. For both HAE and TACE, the HAET end-point was defined as arterial stagnation in the target hepatic vessels with contrast medium clearance in more than five heartbeats. TACE with streptozotocin had to be performed under sedation because of the pain induced at time of arterial injection. The treatment plan allowed for a maximum of two procedures, and the choice of either one or two procedures was defined at the time of patient inclusion during the multidisciplinary team meeting according to the tumour burden and its extension to one or both liver lobes.

Everolimus (10 mg/day) was started 7 days after the HAET and once hepatic toxicity had improved to grade /C20 I. The treatment had to start /C20 30 days after HAET. The

duration of everolimus treatment was 24 months after the first procedure in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. If two HAET procedures were planned, everolimus had to be discontinued the day before HAET and reintroduced in accordance with the conditions described above.

Patients were followed by morphological evaluation every 3 months until death or disease progression by triphasic computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The liver was explored first without contrast agent, then with contrast by acquisitions at the arterial (30 s) and then the portal venous (70 e 90 s) phases. All CT were performed in the same radiology department using identical technical parameters for the baseline and follow-up CT scan.

## 2.3. Study end-points and statistical analysis

The baseline liver tumour burden was reported as a proportion (%) of the total liver volume. For each patient, 4 e 6 scan slices with the greatest tumour volume were selected by the radiologist and the extent of disease scored visually.

The primary end-point of this study was the hPFS rate (based on the central assessment) as defined by RECIST v1.1 (including death considered as progression) at 24 months after treatment. The PFS and objective response were evaluated in the whole liver and not only in the treated liver. According to the literature, the median PFS after HAE or TACE ranges from 15 to 19 months, and the PFS rate at 24 months is around 35% [1,8,13]. The clinical hypothesis was to extend the hPFS rate at 24 months from 35% to 50%. With an a risk of 5% and power of 80%, 68 patients were required. Taking into account loss to follow-up and patients who were not evaluable for any reason other than death, 74 patients were to be included.

Secondary objectives were objective response, PFS (hepatic or not) evaluated by the investigator, overall survival (OS) and the safety of the treatment. For patients with elevated urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) or serum chromogranin A (CgA), these parameters were measured every 3 months. A &gt; 50% reduction or normalisation of levels was defined as a biochemical response.

Analyses of safety were conducted in all patients who received /C21 1 dose of treatment. Qualitative and continuous variables were described using usual descriptive statistics. Survival analyses were performed according to the intent-to-treat (ITT) principle. The median followup was evaluated using the reverse Kaplan e Meier method; PFS and OS were estimated using the Kaplan e Meier method and described with median and two-sided 95% confidence interval (CI). Univariate analyses were performed using the log-rank test for each variable of interest. All statistical analyses were done using SAS software 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).

Table 2 Administration of HAE/TACE and everolimus.

| Treatment characteristics                       | Scheduled   |       | Performed   |           |
|-------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------|-------------|-----------|
| Number of patient receiving HAET, n (%)         | 74          | (100) | 74 (100)    |           |
| Number of procedures, n (%)                     | 142         |       | 130         |           |
| 1                                               | 6           | (8)   | 19          | (26)      |
| 2                                               | 68          | (92)  | 54          | (73)      |
| 3                                               |             |       | 1           | (1)       |
| Type of procedures, n (%)                       |             |       |             |           |
| Bland embolisation                              |             |       | 21          | (16)      |
| Chemoembolisation                               |             |       | 109         | (84)      |
| TACE with doxorubicin                           |             |       | 97          | (89)      |
| TACE with streptozotocin                        |             |       | 12          | (11)      |
| HAET considered as complete                     |             |       | 124/127     | (98)      |
| Embolisation end-point reached                  |             |       | 112/127     | (88)      |
| Complications during the procedure              |             |       | 4/127       | (3)       |
| Number of patients starting everolimus, n (%)   | 74          | (100) | 67          | (91)      |
| Cause of not starting everolimus, n (%)         |             |       |             |           |
| Not recovered at day 30 from HAET               |             |       | 3           | (4)       |
| Unknown                                         |             |       | 4           | (5)       |
| Patient refusal                                 |             |       | 1           | (1)       |
| Median duration in months [IQR]                 |             |       | 11          | [4 e 22]  |
| At least one dose reduction, n (%)              |             |       | 20          | (30)      |
| At least one discontinuation, n (%)             |             |       | 56          | (84)      |
| Cause of discontinuation                        |             |       | 67          |           |
| End of treatment (at 24 months)                 |             |       | 13          | (19)      |
| Disease progression                             |             |       | 21          | (31)      |
| Toxicity                                        |             |       | 24          | (36)      |
| Physician choice                                |             |       | 7           | (10)      |
| Patient choice                                  |             |       | 2           | (3)       |
| Unknown                                         |             |       | 1           | (1)       |
| Median duration of follow-up in months (95% CI) |             |       | 42          | (39 e 45) |

CI, confidence interval; IQR, interquartile range; HAET, hepatic arterial embolisation therapy; TACE, transarterial chemoembolisation.

Table 3 Efficacy.

| End-points for efficacy                                                                                         | Total population n Z 74   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Best radiological tumour response, n (%)                                                                        |                           |
| Objective response                                                                                              | 40 (54)                   |
| Stable disease                                                                                                  | 30 (41)                   |
| Progressive disease                                                                                             | 3 (4)                     |
| Not evaluable                                                                                                   | 1 (1)                     |
| Biochemical response in serum CgA levels in patients with elevated CgA levels and repeated dosages, n/N (%)     | 23/40 (58)                |
| Biochemical response in urine 5HIA levels in patients with elevated 5-HIAA levels and repeated dosages, n/N (%) | 14/18 (78)                |
| Median hepatic PFS, months (95% CI)                                                                             | 18.5 (14.0 e 22.8)        |
| Hepatic PFS rate at 24 months, % (95% CI)                                                                       | 33% (23% e 44%)           |
| Median PFS, months (95% CI)                                                                                     | 16.9 (12.6 e 22.4)        |
| PFS rate at 24 months, % (95% CI)                                                                               | 30% (20% e 40%)           |
| Location of disease progression according to RECIST criteria, n/N                                               | (%) 42/57 (74) 7/57 (12)  |
| Hepatic and extrahepatic Hepatic only                                                                           |                           |
| Extrahepatic only                                                                                               | 8/57 (14)                 |
| Median overall survival, months (95% CI)                                                                        | 51.0 (33.0 e 60.3)        |
| Overall survival rate at 24 months, % (95% CI)                                                                  | 76% (65% e 85%)           |
| Death, n (%)                                                                                                    | (41)                      |
|                                                                                                                 | 30                        |
| Cause of death, n/N (%)                                                                                         |                           |
| Disease progression                                                                                             | 20/30 (67)                |
| Other disease                                                                                                   | 7/30 a (23)               |
| Unknown                                                                                                         | 3/30 (10)                 |

CgA, chromogranin A; PFS, progression-free survival; CI, confidence interval; RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours.

- a Sepsis (n Z 3), liver failure on cirrhosis (n Z 1), cardiac arrest (n Z 1), ruptured aneurysm (n Z 1) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n Z 1).

## 3. Results

## 3.1. Patients

A total of 74 patients were included between January 2013 and March 2016; 42% were female, and the median age was 66 years (range: 43 e 86). The primary tumour was mainly observed in the small bowel (86%). Tumours were grade I (43%) or II (57%). All patients had liver metastases, and the median liver tumour burden was 30% (range: 1 e 80); 51% had extra-liver metastases. All patients had progressive liver disease (RECIST criteria) at study inclusion. Patients had undergone prior primary tumour surgery (72%) and/or surgery/radiofrequency ablation of liver metastases (16%). Thirtyseven (67%) received concurrent somatostatin analogue (Table 1).

## 3.2. Transarterial liver therapy and everolimus

All patients with scheduled HAET received the treatment. Six were scheduled to receive one procedure of HAET, and 68 were scheduled to receive two procedures of HAET (Table 2); 19 patients received one procedure,

54 two, and one patient three procedures of HAET. Overall, 130 procedures of HAET were delivered, including 21 procedures of bland and 109 TACE. The median dose of doxorubicin and streptozotocin administered during TACE was 100 mg (interquartile range [IQR]: 50 e 100) and 1500 mg (IQR: 1500-1500), respectively. The embolisation end-point was reached in 88% of procedures. Four patients experienced a complication during the HAET (one had thoracic pain and bradycardia, three patients had partial arterial occlusions of the cystic, gastric or hepatic arteries, respectively).

Sixty-seven (87%) patients were eligible for everolimus (liver toxicity was grade /C20 I within the 30 days following HAET). Everolimus was started a median 11 days after HAET (IQR: 8 e 20 days), and the median duration of everolimus was 11.4 months (IQR: 4.4 e 22.1). Everolimus was most frequently discontinued because of toxicity (36%) and/or disease progression (31%; Table 2). Twenty (30%) patients required at least one dose reduction.

## 3.3. Efficacy

The hPFS rate at 24 months, the primary end-point was 32.9% (95% CI, 22.5 e 43.7). The median hPFS was 18.5 months (95% CI, 14.0 e 22.8; Table 3, Fig. 1a). Among the characteristics described in Table 1, only age above the median value was significantly associated with shorter hPFS (HR of 1.94, 95% CI 1.14 e 3.33, p Z 0.01).

Among secondary end-points, 40 (54%) had objective response, and 30 (41%) had stable disease (Table 3). The median PFS was 16.9 months (95% CI, 12.6 e 22.4; Fig. 1a), and the median OS was 51.0 months (95% CI, 33.0 e 60.3; Fig. 1c). Eight patients had extrahepatic disease progression alone. Thirty deaths occurred, mainly (67%) secondary to disease progression. Among the 40 patients with elevated serum CgA at baseline ( /C21 200 ng/ ml), and several measurements made during follow-up, 23 (58%) patients experienced a biochemical response following embolisation (major reduction defined as /C21 50% reduction or normalisation). Among the 27 patients with elevated baseline urine 5-HIAA ( /C21 40 mg/ 24 h), 18 had several measurements made during the follow-up: 14 (78%) of them experienced a biochemical response in urine 5-HIAA levels following embolisation (Table 3).

## 3.4. Tolerance

All patients experienced /C21 1 event (any-grade). The most common grade III-IV adverse event ( &gt; 5%) in patients receiving both HAET and everolimus (n Z 67) were elevated liver enzymes (55%), fatigue (18%), diarrhoea (16%), anaemia (12%), hypertriglyceridaemia (7%), abdominal pain (6%), and mucositis (6%; Table 4).

Fig. 1. Kaplan e Meier analysis of hepatic progression-free survival (hPFS), progression-free survival (PFS) (a) and overall survival (b) are presented as well as and percentage change from baseline according to RECIST criteria (c). S, stable disease; P, progressive disease; RP, partial response; RC, complete response.

<!-- image -->

## 4. Discussion

We report herein, to the best of our knowledge, the largest phase II study that prospectively evaluated HAET in NETs, which is also the first study testing everolimus after HAET. This study did not meet its primary end-point (hPFS at 24 months of 50%), which could be explain by two main reasons: the hypothesis for the primary end-point and the timing of post-HAET everolimus. First, the hypothesis was probably too optimistic because designed according to data available at the time of study inception that were scarce, mostly retrospective or did not meet the quality criteria required for trials in NETs [8,14 e 19] that have been reported to be indispensable for such tumours [20,21]. For instance, one of the main criteria required for inclusion in the present study was liver disease progression at baseline according to RECIST within the 12 months before inclusion, which was not an inclusion criterion of most previously reported studies [8,14 e 19]. It is also recommended that the study population be homogeneous (only one type of tumour without pancreatic NET, one type of differentiation according to the WHO classification) [20,21], which was the case herein.

Interestingly, in the only randomised study evaluating HAET in patients with progressive liver metastases from midgut NETs, the hPFS rate at 24 months was 44% and 38% for HAE and TACE, respectively, which was lower than their hypothesis (50% and 75%) [13]. This indicates that a control arm study without everolimus would have been more appropriate herein to determine the value of this drug in increasing hPFS after HAET. Second, one limitation, present herein and in almost all trials combining HAET-antiangiogenic drugs in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) [22 e 24] and NET [8], is the late administration of the targeted therapy after HAET. The VEGF spike occurs within 1 e 2 days after HAET [8] and longitudinal studies in HCC demonstrate that serum VEGF levels rapidly normalise after HAET [25]. However, everolimus was scheduled in the present study to be started from 7 days after HAET to avoid the peak of liver toxicity induced by HAET (55% of grade III e IV). Therefore, mechanistically, it is difficult to expect synergy, as shown by the negative results of these studies [8,22 e 24]. It would make more sense to initiate antiangiogenic drugs before HAET and to continue after the intervention, but the feasibility in terms of safety has not been studied in NETs.

Table 4 Adverse events occurring in /C21 5% of patients receiving both treatments, starting everolimus after at least one liver embolisation (n Z 67).

| Type of adverse events                                | Grade I e II, n (%)   | Grade III e IV, n (%)   | Any grade, n (%)   |
|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------|--------------------|
| At least one toxicity                                 | 67 (100)              | 57 (85)                 | 67 (100)           |
| Fatigue                                               | 47 (70)               | 12 (18)                 | 59 (88)            |
| Fever                                                 | 25 (37)               | 0 (0)                   | 25 (37)            |
| Infections                                            | 18 (27)               | 3 (4)                   | 21 (31)            |
| Myalgia                                               | 8 (12)                | 0 (0)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Peripheral oedema                                     | 25 (37)               | 1 (1)                   | 26 (39)            |
| Deep thrombosis                                       | 4 (6)                 | 0 (0)                   | 4 (6)              |
| Haematological                                        |                       |                         |                    |
| Anaemia                                               | 53 (79)               | 8 (12)                  | 61 (91)            |
| Leukopaenia                                           | 38 (57)               | 0 (0)                   | 38 (57)            |
| Neutropaenia                                          | 18 (27)               | 3 (4)                   | 21 (31)            |
| Lymphopaenia                                          | 5 (7)                 | 3 (4)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Thrombocytopaenia                                     | 34 (51)               | 1 (1)                   | 35 (52)            |
| Digestive                                             |                       |                         |                    |
| Dysgeusia                                             | 7 (10)                | 1 (1)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Mucositis/stomatitis                                  | 28 (42)               | 4 (6)                   | 32 (48)            |
| Weight loss                                           | 7 (10)                | 1 (1)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Diarrhoea                                             | 36 (54)               | 11 (16)                 | 47 (70)            |
| Abdominal pain                                        | 23 (34)               | 4 (6)                   | 27 (40)            |
| Anorexia                                              | 19 (28)               | 2 (3)                   | 21 (31)            |
| Nausea                                                | 23 (34)               | 2 (3)                   | 25 (37)            |
| Vomiting                                              | 20 (30)               | 2 (3)                   | 22 (33)            |
| Dermatological                                        |                       |                         |                    |
| Dry skin                                              | 8 (12)                | 0 (0)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Rash                                                  | 8 (12)                | 0 (0)                   | 8 (12)             |
| Alopecia                                              | 8 (12)                | 2 (3)                   | 10 (15)            |
| Pruritus                                              | 6 (9)                 | 1 (1)                   | 7 (10)             |
| Nail disorders                                        | 4 (6)                 | 0 (0)                   | 4 (6)              |
| Respiratory                                           |                       |                         |                    |
| Epistaxis                                             | 7 (10)                | 0 (0)                   | 7 (10)             |
| Cough                                                 | 11 (16)               | 0 (0)                   | 11 (16)            |
| Dyspnoea                                              | 14 (21)               | 1 (1)                   | 15 (22)            |
| Biochemical                                           |                       |                         |                    |
| Biological liver toxicity (AST, ALT, PAL, bilirubin . | 62 (92)               | 37 (55)                 | 64 (95)            |
| Hypercholesterolaemia                                 | 37 (55)               | 0 (0)                   | 37 (55)            |
| Hypertriglyceridaemia                                 | 33 (49)               | 5 (7)                   | 38 (57)            |
| Hyperglycaemia                                        | 48 (72)               | 3 (4)                   | 51 (76)            |
| Hypoalbuminaemia                                      | 10 (15)               | 1 (1)                   | 11 (16)            |
| Hypocalcaemia                                         | 24 (36)               | 2 (3)                   | 26 (39)            |
| Hypokalaemia                                          | 8 (12)                | 3 (4)                   | 11 (16)            |
| Hyponatraemia                                         | 20 (30)               | 3 (4)                   | 23 (34)            |
| Hypomagnesaemia                                       | 12 (18)               | 2 (3)                   | 14 (21)            |
| Hypophosphataemia                                     | 19 (28)               | 3 (4)                   | 22 (33)            |

The present study underlines the good tolerance and excellent control of extrahepatic disease of the HAET þ everolimus combination. We demonstrated that this sequence (targeted therapy following HAET) is feasible in over 90% of patients, as has been reported by Strosberg et al. [8] for sunitinib; however, half of patients herein and 15% of those receiving sunitinib [8] discontinued before the scheduled times, respectively 104 weeks and 48 weeks, because of toxicity or physician/patient choice. We also found that the PFS was close to the hPFS, while half of patients had extrahepatic metastases at baseline, suggesting that everolimus allows the control extrahepatic disease. Moreover, the PFS and OS observed in this study compared advantageously with those observed in prior retrospective studies evaluating HAET [1] but also the phase III studies investigating everolimus [10,11,26]. The only study to have evaluated HAET followed by a targeted therapy was reported by Strosberg et al. , cited above, which found 28/39 (72%) objective response, a median PFS of 15 months and a PFS rate at 24 months less than 25% according to the reported survival curve [8]; these results are very close to those reported herein.

Another limitation of the study, in addition to the timing of post-HAET everolimus administration and the absence of control arm discussed above, could be the lack of standardisation of the HAET procedure. However, herein and in a prospective randomised study, no significant difference between TACE and HAE was found (hPFS at 24 months: 38% and 44%, respectively, p Z 0.9) [13]. Finally, we used RECIST 1.1 instead of RECIST 1.0 which limits the measurements to only the two most representative liver metastases instead of five. This could be a less representative measure of liver tumour change. In addition, other criteria, including perfusion parameters, may provide an even more accurate assessment of change after HAET and targeted therapies [27,28].

In summary, this phase II study, conducted according to the current quality design in NETs, demonstrates that HAET is a highly active treatment as evidenced by the high rate of objective response and long hPFS/PFS/OS. It also found that everolimus can be safely administered following HAET. However, further randomised clinical trials are warranted to establish the best treatment sequence, i.e. everolimus immediately after HAET or at disease progression.

## Ethical approval and consent to participate

This protocol was authorised by the French medicines agency ( Agence Franc ¸aise de Se ´curite ´ Sanitaire des Produits de Sante ´ ) on 29 June 2012 (A120657-42), and the trial was registered on the clinicaltrials.gov website (NCT01678664). The study complies with the Declaration of Helsinki rules and the principles of Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Patients consent are available.

## Consent to publish

The manuscript is not under consideration for publication elsewhere. There is no major overlap of the issues addressed in this paper with any prior publication. All authors have read and approved the manuscript.

## Availability of data and materials

The data sets used during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

## Funding

The study received funding from Novartis Pharma AG.

## Authors' contribution

T.W., C.L. and T.d.B. wrote the manuscript. C.L., O.H., G.C., O.H., E.B., M.D., C.L.B., and T.d.B. were responsible for the study design of the trial and contributed to writing the study protocol. E.B. is the statistical manager. T.W., C.L., R.C., G.C., F.C.B., O.H., K.B.L., T.A., L.D., E.B., A.D.G. and C.L.B. have included significant number of patients in this trial. All authors have read and approved the final manuscript.

## Conflict of interest statement

The conflicts of interest are described below:

T.W., G.C. have acted as an advisory board member for Ipsen, Pfizer and Novartis.

- R.C. has acted as an advisory board member for Merck, Keocyt, Pfizer and Novartis.
- T.d.B. has acted as an advisory board member for Guerbet.

C.L., E.B., F.X.C.B., T.A., K.B.L., O.H., A.C.D.G., M.D., C.L., T.L., D.S., C.P., I.C., F.G., M.D. and C.L.B. declare no competing interests.

## Acknowledgements

The authors sincerely thank Pr Emmanuel Mitry, from the Curie Rene ´-Huguenin hospital and University of Versailles, for help in designing the study and drafting the EVACEL study protocol.

## Appendix ASupplementary data

Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejca.2019.09.021.

## References

- [1] de Baere T, Deschamps F, Tselikas L, Ducreux M, Planchard D, Pearson E, et al. GEP-NETS update: interventional radiology: role in the treatment of liver metastases from GEP-NETs. Eur J Endocrinol 2015;172(4):R151 e 66.
- [2] Pavel M, O'Toole D, Costa F, Capdevila J, Gross D, Kianmanesh R, et al. ENETS consensus guidelines update for the management of distant metastatic disease of intestinal, pancreatic, bronchial neuroendocrine neoplasms (NEN) and NEN of unknown primary site. Neuroendocrinology 2016;103(2):172 e 85.
- [3] Strosberg JRHT, Bellizzi AM, Chan JA, Dillon JS, Heaney AP, Kunz PL, et al. The north American neuroendocrine tumor society consensus guidelines for surveillance and medical management of midgut neuroendocrine tumors. Pancreas 2017;46(6): 707 e 14.
- [4] Yang TX, Chua TC, Morris DL. Radioembolization and chemoembolization for unresectable neuroendocrine liver metastases - a systematic review. Surg Oncol 2012;21(4):299 e 308.
- [5] Chen JX, Rose S, White SB, El-Haddad G, Fidelman N, Yarmohammadi H, et al. Embolotherapy for neuroendocrine tumor liver metastases: prognostic factors for hepatic progressionfree survival and overall survival. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2017;40(1):69 e 80.
- [6] Terris B, Scoazec JY, Rubbia L, Bregeaud L, Pepper MS, Ruszniewski P, et al. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in digestive neuroendocrine tumours. Histopathology 1998; 32(2):133 e 8.
- [7] Katoh R. Angiogenesis in endocrine glands: special reference to the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor. Microsc Res Tech 2003;60(2):181 e 5.
- [8] Strosberg JR, Weber JM, Choi J, Campos TL, Valone TL, Han G, et al. A phase II clinical trial of sunitinib following hepatic transarterial embolization for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors. Ann Oncol 2012;23(9):2335 e 41.
- [9] Couderc C, Poncet G, Villaume K, Blanc M, Gadot N, Walter T, et al. Targeting the PI3K/mTOR pathway in murine endocrine cell lines in vitro and in vivo effects on tumor cell growth. Am J Pathol 2011;178(1):336 e 44.
- [10] Pavel ME, Hainsworth JD, Baudin E, Peeters M, Horsch D, Winkler RE, et al. Everolimus plus octreotide long-acting repeatable for the treatment of advanced neuroendocrine tumours associated with carcinoid syndrome (RADIANT-2): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet 2011; 378(9808):2005 e 12.
- [11] Yao JC, Fazio N, Singh S, Buzzoni R, Carnaghi C, Wolin E, et al. Everolimus for the treatment of advanced, non-functional neuroendocrine tumours of the lung or gastrointestinal tract (RADIANT-4): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet 2016;387(10022):968 e 77.
- [12] Bosman FTCF, Hruban RH. WHO Classification of tumours of the digestive system. Lyon: IARC; 2010. 2010.
- [13] Maire F, Lombard-Bohas C, O'Toole D, Vullierme MP, Rebours V, Couvelard A, et al. Hepatic arterial embolization versus chemoembolization in the treatment of liver metastases from well-differentiated midgut endocrine tumors: a prospective randomized study. Neuroendocrinology 2012;96(4):294 e 300.
- [14] Fiorentini G, Rossi S, Bonechi F, Vaira M, De Simone M, Dentico P, et al. Intra-arterial hepatic chemoembolization in liver metastases from neuroendocrine tumors: a phase II study. J Chemother 2004;16(3):293 e 7.
- [15] Bhagat N, Reyes DK, Lin M, Kamel I, Pawlik TM, Frangakis C, et al. Phase II study of chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads in patients with hepatic neuroendocrine metastases: high incidence of biliary injury. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2013; 36(2):449 e 59.
- [16] Ruszniewski P, Rougier P, Roche A, Legmann P, Sibert A, Hochlaf S, et al. Hepatic arterial chemoembolization in patients with liver metastases of endocrine tumors. A prospective phase II study in 24 patients. Cancer 1993;71(8):2624 e 30.
- [17] Marrache F, Vullierme MP, Roy C, El Assoued Y, Couvelard A, O'Toole D, et al. Arterial phase enhancement and body mass index are predictors of response to chemoembolisation for liver metastases of endocrine tumours. Br J Cancer 2007;96(1):49 e 55.
- [18] Gupta S, Yao JC, Ahrar K, Wallace MJ, Morello FA, Madoff DC, et al. Hepatic artery embolization and chemoembolization for treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors: the M.D. Anderson experience. Cancer J 2003;9(4):261 e 7.
- [19] Eriksson BK, Larsson EG, Skogseid BM, Lofberg AM, Lorelius LE, Oberg KE. Liver embolizations of patients with malignant neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumors. Cancer 1998; 83(11):2293 e 301.
- [20] Kulke MH, Siu LL, Tepper JE, Fisher G, Jaffe D, Haller DG, et al. Future directions in the treatment of neuroendocrine

- tumors: consensus report of the national cancer Institute neuroendocrine tumor clinical trials planning meeting. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(7):934 e 43.
- [21] Walter T, Krzyzanowska MK. Quality of clinical trials in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. Neuroendocrinology 2012;96(3):238 e 48.
- [22] Kudo M, Imanaka K, Chida N, Nakachi K, Tak WY, Takayama T, et al. Phase III study of sorafenib after transarterial chemoembolisation in Japanese and Korean patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. Eur J Cancer 2011;47(14): 2117 e 27.
- [23] Lencioni R, Llovet JM, Han G, Tak WY, Yang J, Guglielmi A, et al. Sorafenib or placebo plus TACE with doxorubicin-eluting beads for intermediate stage HCC: the SPACE trial. J Hepatol 2016;64(5):1090 e 8.
- [24] Kudo M, Arizumi T. Transarterial chemoembolization in combination with a molecular targeted agent: lessons learned from
- negative trials (Post-TACE, BRISK-TA, SPACE, ORIENTAL, and TACE-2). Oncol 2017;93(1):127 e 34.
- [25] Liu K, Min XL, Peng J, Yang K, Yang L, Zhang XM. The changes of HIF-1alpha and VEGF expression after TACE in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. J Clin Med Res 2016;8(4): 297 e 302.
- [26] Yao JC, Shah MH, Ito T, Bohas CL, Wolin EM, Van Cutsem E, et al. Everolimus for advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med 2011;364(6):514 e 23.
- [27] de Mestier L, Dromain C, d'Assignies G, Scoazec JY, Lassau N, Lebtahi R, et al. Evaluating digestive neuroendocrine tumor progression and therapeutic responses in the era of targeted therapies: state of the art. Endocr Relat Cancer 2014;21(3):R105 e 20.
- [28] Ng CS, Charnsangavej C, Wei W, Yao JC. Perfusion CT findings in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors undergoing bevacizumab and interferon therapy. Am J Roentgenol 2011;196(3): 569 e 76.